# ПЕРЕНОС ПРОЦЕССА В КОНТРОЛЬНУЮ ГРУППУ

Move a process into a cgroup by running the`cgclassify`command, for example:

```console
$ cgclassify -g cpu,memory:group1 1701
```

The syntax for`cgclassify`is:

```console
cgclassify -g subsystems:path_to_cgroup pidlist
```

where:

*   _subsystems_is a comma‑separated list of subsystems, or`*`to launch the process in the hierarchies associated with all available subsystems. Note that if cgroups of the same name exist in multiple hierarchies, the`-g`option moves the processes in each of those groups. Ensure that the cgroup exists within each of the hierarchies whose subsystems you specify here.
    
*   _path\_to\_cgroup_is the path to the cgroup within its hierarchies.
    
*   _pidlist_is a space-separated list of_process identifier_(PIDs).
    

If the`-g`option is not specified,`cgclassify`automatically searches the`/etc/cgrules.conf`file (see[Section 2.8.1, “The cgred Service”](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/resource_management_guide/sec-Moving_a_Process_to_a_Control_Group#The_cgred_Service)) and uses the first applicable configuration line. According to this line,`cgclassify`determines the hierarchies and cgroups to move the process under. Note that for the move to be successful, the destination hierarchies must exist. The subsystems specified in`/etc/cgrules.conf`also have to be properly configured for the corresponding hierarchy in`/etc/cgconfig.conf`.

You can also add the`--sticky`option before the_pid_to keep any child processes in the same cgroup. If you do not set this option and the**cgred**service is running, child processes are allocated to cgroups based on the settings found in`/etc/cgrules.conf`. However, the parent process remains in the cgroup in which it was first started.

Using`cgclassify`, you can move several processes simultaneously. For example, this command moves the processes with PIDs`1701`and`1138`into cgroup`group1/`:

~\]# `cgclassify -g cpu,memory:group1 1701 1138`

Note that the PIDs to be moved are separated by spaces and that the specified groups should be in different hierarchies.

### Alternative method

To move a process into a cgroup directly, write its PID to the`tasks`file of the cgroup. For example, to move a process with the PID`1701`into a cgroup at`/cgroup/cpu_and_mem/group1/`:

~\]# `echo 1701 > /cgroup/cpu_and_mem/group1/tasks`

### 2.8.1. The cgred Service

**Cgred**is a service (which starts the`cgrulesengd`service) that moves tasks into cgroups according to parameters set in the`/etc/cgrules.conf`file. Entries in the`/etc/cgrules.conf`file can take one of these two forms:

_user_ _subsystems_ _control\_group_

_user_:_command_ _subsystems_ _control\_group_

Replace_user_with a user name or a group name prefixed with the "@" character. Replace_subsystems_with a comma‑separated list of subsystem names,_control\_group_represents a path to the cgroup, and_command_stands for a process name or a full command path of a process.

For example:

maria			devices		/usergroup/staff

This entry specifies that any processes that belong to the user named`maria`access the`devices`subsystem according to the parameters specified in the`/usergroup/staff`cgroup. To associate particular commands with particular cgroups, add the_command_parameter, as follows:

maria:ftp		devices		/usergroup/staff/ftp

The entry now specifies that when the user named`maria`uses the`ftp`command, the process is automatically moved to the`/usergroup/staff/ftp`cgroup in the hierarchy that contains the`devices`subsystem. Note, however, that the daemon moves the process to the cgroup only after the appropriate condition is fulfilled. Therefore, the`ftp`process might run for a short time in the wrong group. Furthermore, if the process quickly spawns children while in the wrong group, these children might not be moved.

Entries in the`/etc/cgrules.conf`file can include the following extra notation:

*   `@`— indicates a group instead of an individual user. For example,`@admins`are all users in the`admins`group.
    
*   `*`— represents "all". For example,`*`in the`subsystem`field represents all mounted subsystems.
    
*   `%`— represents an item that is the same as the item on the line above.
    

For example, the entries specified in the`/etc/cgrules.conf`file can have the following form:

@adminstaff		devices		/admingroup
@labstaff		%		%

The above configuration ensures that processes owned by the`adminstaff`and`labstaff`access the`devices`subsystem according to the limits set in the`admingroup`cgroup.

Rules specified in`/etc/cgrules.conf`can be linked to templates configured either in the`/etc/cgconfig.conf`file or in configuration files stored in the`/etc/cgconfig.d/`directory, allowing for flexible cgroup assignment and creation.

For example, specify the following template in`/etc/cgconfig.conf`:

template users/%g/%u {
                     cpuacct{
                     }
                     cpu {
                        cpu.shares = "1000";
                     }
          }

Then use the_users/%g/%u_template in the third row of a`/etc/cgrules.conf`entry, which can look as follows:

peter:ftp		cpu		users/%g/%u

The`%g`and`%u`variables used above are automatically replaced with group and user name depending on the owner of the `ftp`process. If the process belongs to`peter`from the`adminstaff`group, the above path is translated to`users/adminstaff/peter`. The`cgred`service then searches for this directory, and if it does not exist,`cgred`creates it and assigns the process to`users/adminstaff/peter/tasks`. Note that template rules apply only to definitions of templates in configuration files, so even if "_group users/adminstaff/peter_" was defined in`/etc/cgconfig.conf`, it would be ignored in favor of "_template users/%g/%u_".

There are several other variables that can be used for specifying cgroup paths in templates:

*   `%u`— is replaced with the name of the user who owns the current process. If name resolution fails, UID is used instead.
    
*   `%U`— is replaced with the UID of the specified user who owns the current process.
    
*   `%g`— is replaced with the name of the user group that owns the current process, or with the GID if name resolution fails.
    
*   `%G`— is replaced with the GID of the cgroup that owns the current process.
    
*   `%p`— is replaced with the name of the current process. PID is used in case of name resolution failure.
    
*   `%P`— is replaced with the PID of the current processes.

**********
[cgroups](/tags/cgroups.md)
